# Feel free to ignore this file, it's a work in progress, still in the data-aggregation phase

Distros:
Basically there are 3 primary groups of desktop distros (which use different package managers): Debian (apt), Arch (pacman), Fedora (dnf)
Some distros come with specially-made UI and customization options, and of-course the maintainers (and their servers) differ too


Debian - operating simplicity. Has a large community and common program support/compatibility. Debian itself isn't (or just wasn't?) easy to install.
    Ubuntu - user-friendly, basic/beginner experience on GNOME
        Mint - customized with a lot of tools and a few distinct systems
        Pop!OS - like mint, stylized on its own
        Elementary OS - stylish. Mouse (non-terminal) oriented. Requires recent hardware and at-least medium-spec hardware. Runs its own unique Desktop Environment that's in many ways like Mac
        Zorin OS - comes with some common software like Mint (and a bit beyond). Updates rather slow, every 2 years
        Kubuntu - flavor rather than distro; running on KDE Plasma (instead of GNOME)
        Lubuntu - flavor rather than distro; runinng on LXQt (instead of GNOME). Very lightwedight 
        Xubuntu - flavor rather than distro; runinng on Xfce (instead of GNOME). Very lightwedight 
    SteamOS 1 / 2 - a game library/player
    Kali - basically a network and penetration-testing platform
    Tails - Security/privacy-focused OS that runs off of a USB drive, and doesn't persist information
    Raspberry Pi OS - runs RaspberryPi devices


Red Hat - stable; business-oriented
    Fedora - Highly polished, just works. Solid choice in most ways. Linus Tovalds's choice!
        QubesOS - privacy-focused; everything is in its own VM. Touted as the best for security by Edward Snowden.
    CentOS - stability/security-focused (on expense of updates). Used often on servers
    RHEL - Enterprise Linux, used often on servers. NOT free.


Arch - custom-tailored, meant to be personally-configured ; runs specifically on your hardware (marginally faster than other distros). Updates often, known to be less stable
    EndeavourOS - possibly the best Arch distro, according to someone on youtube
    Garuda - use-friendly and polished with pre-selected programs and features
    Manjaro - (was) relatively-convenient Arch; it detects your hardware and installs the necessary drivers for you. But they're not updating their certificates properly, and replaced open-source software with proprietary, and used alpha/beta version of apps as "stable". And some packages on AUR break Manjaro due to versioning.
    Arco Linux - similar to Manjaro?
        Big Linux - has a lot of convenient GUI configurations, and an easy way to switch the Desktop Environment
    SteamOS 3 - Steam Deck's OS, used for gaming, runs with KDE Plasma 5 and has a Windows-compatibility layer


Enoch
    Gentoo - Like Arch but somehow more extreme. You have to compile everything yourself.
        Chromium OS - for people who don't want a computer, just Google Chrome


Alpine - very light and minimalistic (supports run-from-RAM), great for microservices and dockerized server stuff


SuSE Linux - [Software- und System-Entwicklung (Software and Systems Development)]
    OpenSUSE Tumbleweed - rolling versions, but still stable. Can switch flavors easily!  OpenSUSE is meant for IT and productivity (comes with preinstallations)


NixOS - supports a lot of packages. The Nix package manager is available for other distros.


Android
    LineageOS - a privacy-centered fork of CyanogenMod


SELinux - Security Enhanced Linux developed by Red Hat and used by the NSA. Has a complicated user-access system.


Meant to run on media attachments. Lightweight
    Porteus - Works off SD/DVD/USB... Light and fast
    Puppy - Works off SD/DVD/USB...
    Tails (already mentioned above)


Linux From Scratch - a project that takes you through creation and customization of your own Linux OS.


OpenBSD isn't Linux, but it's still Unix-like. Entirely free and highly secure (network security).





Desktop Environments / flavors: 
Remember that those can be swapped; those are just system configurations / packages

    Qt-based:
        KDE (Neon) - Entirely free-software based. Stylish/modern and highly modifiable. Has a large (well-made) applications bundle. [Kool Desktop Environment]
            KDE Plasma - Has a lot of flare to it.
            KDE Lite - ?
        LXDE - a barebones lightweight environment
        LXQt - lightweight fork of LXDE, (about twice heavier the LXDE). Negligibly lighter than Xfce; relatively new (for better/worse). Looks like an amalgamation of old Windows and Mac, seems to have its own quirks
        Qtile - ?

    GTK(+)-based: (GTK 3)
        GNOME - Very common, but the progression from GNOME 2 to GNOME 3 (a bit more Mac-like) was controvertial.
            Cinnamon - Stylized, but still decently snappy. A fork of GNOME 3 but the layout is like GNOME 2 (Windows-7 like).
            MATE - Lighter than Cinnamon. The primary continuation of GNOME 2. Looks like Windows Vista.
        Xfce - Minimal on features and with crude graphics, works for weak or old hardware. Looks like flat Windows XP [abbreviation: XForms Common Environment]
        Pantheon - ?
        Unity - used to be the environment of Ubuntu, but they're long-gone
        Budgie - ?

    i3 - keyboard-only window manager
        TODO - see what it's based on
    DWM - another window manager (just terminal windows)
    
    DDE (Desktop Deepin Environment) - all I know is that it's a "beautiful" environment, maybe the best at that.
    i3WM - ?
    Wayfire - ?
    

Visuals:
GTK - open source toolkits and GUI elements. Everything uses it.
Qt - a cross platform (for every common OS) GUI creator  [pronounced "cute"]
X11 - a display server. Extremely common, very old, somewhat bloated.
Wayland - a display server newer and lighter than X11. Many programs still don't support it. Accepts laptop trackpad gestures.

File Managers:
Nautilus - built on GNOME 2
Nemo - A fork of Nautilus
Caja - A fork of Nautilus
Dolphin - built on KDE






Meme distros:
AmogOS (among us, unknown to me what it forks off)
Ubuntu Satanic Edition (satanic Ubuntu, comes with free Metal music)
Moebuntu (moe Ubuntu. Anime styled)
Uwuntu (UwU Ubuntu. Anime styled)
Suicide Linux (debian based? incorrect commands get translated to "rm -rf /")
Red Star OS (North Korea's OS, unknown to me what it forks off. An opressive malware OS)




